Reflection Questions
1. What accessibility enhancements were the most challenging to implement, and why?
For a coding beginner like myself, I’d probably have to say the ARIA attribute like aria-live="polite" for dynamically updated content because of the use of JavaScript. While I was able to set it up and understand it, I’ve yet to verify if it worked. Also, and interestingly enough, the color contrast of the placeholders for all the fields was a challenge, and while the current contrast appears to work, I’m not sure why that was the only style I could not fully manipulate.

2. How do ARIA attributes improve the experience for users relying on assistive technologies?
ARIA attributes help assistive technologies like screen readers interact with custom features of a regular user interface and thus make the web experience that much better for users with certain disabilities. They’re useful for situations where native HTML elements may not be enough for a special enough task. For example, role="dialog" or role="navigation" provide meaning to a custom element, so that assistive technologies can announce it correctly. Attributes like aria-expanded="true" or aria-checked="false" announce changes, like when a checkbox is deselected, so users with disabilities know the current conditions of the checkbox. And lastly, the use of aria-labelledby is for when a native html label element isn’t enough for the task at hand, and it provides a label that assistive technologies can read.

3. What tools did you use to check color contrast, and how did they help?
I actually found a few sites that appeared to be promising. However, it was WebAIM Contrast Checker that helped the most. During my search, I kept looking for one that would take the hex value for either the foreground or background and the contrast ratio so that it could return either the foreground or background value, but I had no luck. I also noticed sometimes a mismatch of values between the contrast ratio of some of these sites and the dev tools in main browsers — not by much, but enough to notice.
